## Neuroplasticity:

Neuroplasticity, also known as neural plasticity or brain plasticity, is a process that involves adaptive structural and functional changes to the brain.   
It is defined as the ability of the nervous system to change its activity in response to intrinsic or extrinsic stimuli by reorganizing its structure, functions or connections.  
These changes can either be beneficial, neutral, or negative. 

*Neuroplasticity can be broken down into two major mechanisms*:
* Neuronal regeneration/collateral sprouting: This includes concepts such as synaptic plasticity and neurogenisis.
* Functional reorganization: This includes concepts such as cortical remapping and phantom limb syndrome.


### Mechanisms of Neuroplasticity:
1. **Neuronal Regeneration/Collateral Sprouting:**
             
    Synaptic plasticity: Synaptic plasticity is the ability to make experience-dependent long-lasting changes in the strength of neuronal connections. Synaptic plasticity can be positively influenced by several things, including, but not exclusively, exercise, the environment, and learning. The theory of synaptic plasticity has grown to include more of the evolving complexity of synaptic communcation, These include:
                
    * Spike-timing-dependent plasticity(STDP): This incorporates the timing of action potentials generated by presynaptic and postsynaptic neurons to explain how  some synapses are strengthened and others are weakened.
    * Metaplasticity: This broadens the concept to include networks and involves the activity-dependent changes in synapses and how they respond.
    * Homeostatic plasticity: Mechanisms that maintain homeostasis of the synaptic network over time.
  
2. **Functional Reorganization:**
   
   *Equipotentiality and vicariation*: Equipotentiality is the concept that when one area of the brain is damaged, the opposite side of the brain would be able to sustain the lost function.
   Vicariation is that the brain can reorganize other portions of the brain to overtake functions that they were not intended to.
   
   *Diaschisis*: It is a concept that damage to one part of the brain could cause a loss of function in another area due to some connected pathway. The concept of diaschisis has broadened over time and is used to explain several different concepts about the functional connections of the brain and what ensues when damage occurs. 

### Synaptic Plasticity:

Synaptic plasticity is the ability to affect the strength of communication between a presynaptic and postsynaptic neuron. The stronger the communication, the higher the probability of an action potential firing. Synaptic strength can be changed at a synapse by increasing the amount of vesicles released, the amount of transmitter in a vesicle, or the number of neurotransmitter receptors.   
Synaptic plasticity can also include the formation of new synapses or the loss of synapses. It is the foundation for learning, since the number of connections that exist between neurons and how strong those connections are determine the efficacy of communication information.

### Homeostatic synaptic plasticity:

Homeostatic synaptic plasticity, or simply homeostatic plasticity, is a specific type of plasticity in which there is a change in the synaptic signal that produces an opposite change in network or circuit function to the direction of treatment in an attempt to maintain homeostasis. Homeostatic plasticity regulates neuronal activity and neutralizes destablizing forces.